"Hit hard, we can take it"
Seeking support from a bigger and richer country to help contain the frequent assaults of raiders coming from beyond its uncertain northern borders, Tork joined the Kingdom of Ankist in the year 75. It is a poor place, where the central authority struggles to survive, tormented by incursions from barbaric Skaram tribes that live in the hills at the foot of the Fola Fuar Mountains. If Lybra and the whole of Ankist can sleep peacefully, they owe it to your brave and proud people, forged by many battles and the hostile climate of your territory. Thick clouds cover your homeland during winter, when extremely long nights produce endless horrors: Animal carcasses are found ripped apart in unnatural ways, the remnants of dark and obscure rituals perpetrated by ominous cultists are found in the countryside, and shadows agitate the vast forests. Torkans, however, are not intimidated, and always react to any threat in the same way by fighting. The courage and resilience of your warriors is also incarnated in your family, who have joined its warriors in battle on the front lines for generations. You often lead hunts for cultists and other horrors to protect the population. Despite your fighting skill, you never find pleasure in taking someone's life and you fight only to defend your people. No one is sent to die in battle lightly, as your population is scarce compared to the vastness of your territory. Everyone does their part in Tork, from the warriors to the priestesses, who often go on the battlefield to bless the soldiers. In some rare, extreme cases, they even join the fight. Your aspiration is that everyone would unite to fight the horrors and the dangers that infest the world, and that the Torkans are not left alone to shed their blood to defend it.

[[Moderate]] +++
[[Extremist]] ++
